Tutorial clarity improved to aid users with less programming experience. (#9327)
wagtail/wagtail: docs/getting_started/tutorial.md

![Browser screenshot of "Welcome to your new Wagtail site!" page, with teal egg above the title, and links to different resources. The page is shown inside a browswer tab, with browser URL bar at the top](../_static/images/tutorial/tutorial_1.png)

```{note}

> Throughout this tutorial we will use `http://127.0.0.1:8000` but depending on your setup, this could be `http://localhost:8000/` or a different IP address or port. Please read the console output of `manage.py runserver` if you get stuck here. It will tell you what the IP / URL is of your site running locally.

Reviewer: > Please read the console output of `manage.py runserver` if you get stuck here.  It will tell you what the IP / URL is of your site running locally.

How about: 

Please read the console output of `manage.py runserver` to determine the correct url for your local site.

Author: @cnk This seems to be a more direct and self-explanatory suggestion. In this case, I would make the change right away.

Run `python manage.py makemigrations` and `python manage.py migrate`.

Since the model is called `BlogIndexPage`, the default template name

> (unless we override it) will be `blog_index_page.html` and the template path will be  
> `blog/templates/blog/blog_index_page.html`. In your new blog folder, do the following:
> 1. Create a folder named `templates`.
> 2. Create a folder named `blog` in your newly created `templates` folder.
> 3. Create a file named `blog_index_page.html` in your newly created `blog` folder.

Reviewer 2: Just thinking about this, we should try to assume some basic knowledge of how folder creation works and how a path to a file assumes you can create the folders if they are not present. Otherwise this tutorial may become too huge.

However, I agree that this could be worded better, here is maybe a refinement.

```suggestion
will be `blog_index_page.html` and Django will look for this template in your `blog` app folder within the `templates` directory and try to find a template with a name based on your Page model's name. The default behaviour can be overridden if needed.

Create a file at the location `blog/templates/blog/blog_index_page.html` and in that file enter the following content:
```

Note: line 249 can be removed below.

Run `python manage.py makemigrations` and `python manage.py migrate`.

> Create a template by following these steps:
> 1. Goto your `blog` folder.
> 2. Goto the `templates` folder in your `blog` folder.
> 3. Goto the `blog` folder in your `templates` folder.
> 4. Create a file named named `blog_page.html` in the `blog` folder mentioned in step 3.
> 5. Add the following content to your newly created `blog_page.html` file:

Reviewer 2: Similar here, see if we can condense this into a bit more detail than exists now but without hand holding the entire process of creating a folder each step of the way.

```suggestion
Create a new template file at the location `blog/templates/blog/blog_page.html`, you may need to create the folders within your `blog` app's folder. 

Now add the following content to your newly created `blog_page.html` file:
```

Note the use of Wagtail's built-in `get_parent()` method to obtain the
URL of the blog this post is a part of.

> Now create a few blog posts as children of "Our Blog" page.

Reviewer 2: We should be careful here, the model name is intentional here as we are learning how Wagtail works, the page's title set by the editor is not super relevant.

```suggestion
Now create a few blog posts as children of `BlogIndexPage` (with the title "Our Blog").
```

Something like this could help, it is important that developers learn that there are models for each page type and that each page is an instance of that model. The instance has the title - which is the confusing thing here - maybe we can better word this without missing out on the code structure detail.

Author: @lb- For this, I had to revert back to the original content in the wagtail/main branch as I think the illustration added after it is sufficient explanation.

Publish each blog post when you are done editing.

You should now have the very beginnings of a working blog.

> Access the `http://127.0.0.1:8000/blog` URL and you should see something like this:

Reviewer 2: This was actually removed in a [previous PR](See previous change - https://github.com/wagtail/wagtail/pull/9299/files#diff-ae6d4a70a5209ad442f837a13f901d3e090bd84beafcfcbb9268ae9e01f31158R271), maybe we can do something better here. I agree we should keep this full IP address here but think we can improve this with a change near the top of the page.

Can you please maybe do a new change near the top of this page.

> If everything worked, <http://127.0.0.1:8000> will show you a welcome page:

Maybe we need a call out for something like 
```
   ```{note}
   Throughout this tutorial we will use `http://127.0.0.1:8000` but depending on your setup this could be `http://localhost:8000/` or a different IP address or port. Please read the console output of `manage.py runserver` if you get stuck here ad it will tell you what the IP / URL is of your site running locally.
   ```
```

Visiting a blog post with tags should now show a set of linked
buttons at the bottom - one for each tag. However, clicking a button
will get you a 404, since we haven't yet defined a "tags" view. Add the following content to the `models.py` in your `blog` folder:

```python

> # ... (Keep the definition of BlogIndexPage, BlogPageTag, BlogPage, BlogPageGalleryImage)

Reviewer 2: Is this comment intentional? Maybe remove this.

Reviewer 2: Ignore this. I see what this is for now.

Let's add a category system to our blog. Unlike tags, where a page author can bring a tag into existence simply by using it on a page, our categories will be a fixed list, managed by the site owner through a separate area of the admin interface.

First, we define a `BlogCategory` model. A category is not a page in its own right, and so we define it as a standard Django `models.Model` rather than inheriting from `Page`. Wagtail introduces the concept of "snippets" for reusable pieces of content that need to be managed through the admin interface, but do not exist as part of the page tree themselves; a model can be registered as a snippet by adding the `@register_snippet` decorator. All the field types we've used so far on pages can be used on snippets too - here we'll give each category an icon image as well as a name. Add the following content to the `models.py` in your `blog` folder:

```python
from wagtail.snippets.models import register_snippet

> # ... (Keep the definition of BlogIndexPage, BlogPageTag, BlogPage, BlogPageGalleryImage, BlogTagIndexPage)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: Ignore this.

Note that we are using `panels` rather than `content_panels` here - since snippets generally have no need for fields such as slug or publish date, the editing interface for them is not split into separate 'content' / 'promote' / 'settings' tabs as standard, and so there is no need to distinguish between 'content panels' and 'promote panels'.
```

> Migrate this change by running `python manage.py makemigrations` and `python manage.py migrate`. Create a few categories through the Snippets area which now appears in the admin menu.

Reviewer: Very helpful change!

Note that we are using `panels` rather than `content_panels` here - since snippets generally have no need for fields such as slug or publish date, the editing interface for them is not split into separate 'content' / 'promote' / 'settings' tabs as standard, and so there is no need to distinguish between 'content panels' and 'promote panels'.
```

> Migrate this change by running  `python manage.py makemigrations` and `python manage.py migrate`. Create a few categories through the Snippets area which now appears in the admin menu.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Migrate this change by running `python manage.py makemigrations` and `python manage.py migrate`. Create a few categories through the Snippets area which now appears in the admin menu.
```

> Second, we will add categories to the `BlogPage` model, as a many-to-many field. The field type we use for this is `ParentalManyToManyField` - this is a variant of the standard Django `ManyToManyField` which ensures that the chosen objects are correctly stored against the page record in the revision history, in much the same way that `ParentalKey` replaces `ForeignKey` for one-to-many relations.To add categories to the `BlogPage`, modify `models.py` in your blog folder: 

Reviewer 2: I would avoid adding 'second' here, as it means if we add things before this we will have up update this paragraph.
